Hello and welcome to this course on
Python programming called Introduction to
Python Programming.
My name is Mike McMillan and I'm going to
be your instructor for the course.
To tell you a little bit about myself,
I've been
a college instructor of computer science
for the past 13 years.
I've taught courses in programming
languages such as
C++, Java, Visual Basic, JavaScript, C#,
PHP, and Python.
I've been a programmer, though, for the
past 23 years,
and have worked in the industry, off and
on, since 1981.
In this course, we're going to cover the
basics of Python
Programming for a person who has no
experience at all in programming.
So, to give you an idea of the topics
we're going to be covering in the course,
I'm just gonna list them out for you right
here, we'll be talking about how to
install Python.
We'll write our very first program, our
Hello, World!
program, as a way of introducing you to
the
basics of entering a program and getting
it to run.
Next, we'll talk about the different data
types and how to create variables in
python.
Next, we'll talk about python input and
output.
next, we'll be talking about how to get
our programs
to make decisions, and that's how to
create if statements.
Next up, we'll learn how to perform
repetition in
our python programs, and that topic is
while loops.
Staying on the topic of repetition, we'll
talk
about the loop type which is for loops.
Then we'll talk about a little more
advanced topic that is key to
performing a lot of repetition in Python,
and that's the concept of the iterator.
Next, we'll talk about what are called
list comprehensions.
After list comprehensions, we'll be
talking about how
to create and use functions in our Python
program.
Following functions, we'll talk a little
bit about variable scope.
And how variables are perceived in our
Python program.
Next, we'll talk about how to create
modules and how
to use the built-in modules that come with
the Python language.
After that, we'll talk about the
basics of creating objects, and
object-oriented programming.
Following the basics of object-oriented
programming,
we'll talk about one advanced
object-oriented
programming topic, and that's inheritance,
or
reusing class definitions in other class
definitions.
Then, we'll talk about exception handling
and how to handle.
Exceptions or errors in our Python
program.
Finally, to wrap up the course we'll have
a little chapter on using data structures,
and these data structures include lists,
tuples, and dictionaries.
I believe the topics we cover in this
course will give you
a good beginning foundation to becoming
a competent, and even expert Python
programmer.
Once you finish this course, I'd encourage
you to look at another
course that I've created for Infinite
Skills, called Web Programming with
Python.
In it, you'll learn how to use Python to
do lots of different types of web
programming from screen scraping to
creating your own
web applications platforms using a system
called Django.
But web programming is a completely other
topic
and here we're talking about just
introductory Python programming.
So, without further ado I encourage you to
move onto the first chapter of
the course where we talk about how to
install Python on your computer system.